What are some ways firms can engage in international business?
Importing and exporting, licensing, franchising, joint ventures, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company. 
What are examples of direct foreign investment?
Joint venture, buying a local company, or starting a foreign company.
What is direct foreign investment?
Buying a controlling stake in foreign operations.
What does direct foreign investment represent?
Direct foreign investment represents long-term investment, which countries like.
What are the two accounts that make up the balance of payments?
The current account and the capital account.
How do you calculate the current account balance?
current account = exports – imports
What does it mean if the current account is negative?
If the current account is negative, we import more than we export.
What does the financial account include?
The financial account includes all portfolio and direct foreign investments.
What is portfolio investment?
Portfolio investment it buying non-controlling stake in a company.
What should the sum of the financial account and the current account be? 
zero
What are trade frictions?
Trade frictions are ways to lessen the amount of imports and exports internationally traded.
What happens to the current account when US inflation increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What happens to the current account when U.S national income increases?
The current account will decrease, and the deficit will increase.
What is a foreign exchange market?
It is a market in which you exchange currencies.
What is a direct quote?
A direct quote is quoted in the amount of US dollars for the other currency.
What is an indirect quote?
An indirect quote is quoted in the amount of the foreign currency for US dollars.
What is a cross exchange rate?
Any quote not including US dollars.
What is a Eurodollar account?
It is a US dollar denominated account abroad.
Is there a reserve requirement on Eurodollar accounts?
No, there is no reserve requirement for Eurodollar accounts.
What is a Eurobond?
A Eurobond is a bond that is not denominated in the country’s currency that it is sold in.
What is an example of a Eurobond?
An example could be a yen denominated bond sold in Brazil.
What is a foreign bond?
A foreign bond is a bond that is sold in another country.
What is an example of a foreign bond?
An example could be a Japanese bond denominated in yen.
Do bonds have more protective covenants than Eurobonds?
Bonds do have more protective covenants than Eurobonds.
What are some factors that affect exchange rates?
Inflation, income, interest rates, etc.
What are some types of exchange rate systems?
Fixed, freely floating, managed floating, and pegged.
What is a fixed exchange rate system?
In a fixed exchange rate system, the exchange rate is held constant or given small room to fluctuate.
How are exchange rates determined in a freely floating exchange rate system?
Exchange rates are determined by market forces and have no intervention by governments.
Can governments intervene in a managed float exchange rate system?
Yes, governments are allowed to intervene.
What is a pegged exchange rate system?
A pegged exchange rate system is when the home currency is pegged to another foreign currency or to an index of currencies. 
What is arbitrage?
Capitalizing on different quoted prices and making a profit.
What are types of arbitrages?
Locational arbitrage, triangular arbitrage, and covered interest arbitrage.
What is locational arbitrage?
Locational arbitrage is when a currency is bought at a place that is priced low and sold at a different place that is priced higher.
What does triangular arbitrage capitalize on?
Discrepancies between cross exchange rates.
What is interest rate parity?
Interest rate parity is when interest rates and exchange rates adjust so covered interest arbitrages cannot happen.
What does the interest rate parity line represent?
It represents the spots where covered interest arbitrages are not possible.
What are the main components to the current account?
Payments for goods and services, factor income, and transfers.
What is dumping?
Dumping is when goods that were produced with help from government subsidies are exported.
What are examples of the influential factors of international trade?
Inflation, national income, government policies, and exchange rates.
What is intracompany trade?
Intracompany trade is when companies purchase products that are produced by their subsidies.

What is the commonly accepted goal of an MNC?
Maximize Shareholder wealth
What are the comparative advantages that countries like the United States have compared to Jamaica?
The United States has technological advances, while Jamaica has cheaper labor
What are some examples of franchises?
McDonalds, Wendy’s, Subway, Pizza Hut
Acquisitions allow a firm to what?
Have full control over their foreign businesses and can quickly obtain a large portion of foreign market share.
What is a way that a firm can penetrate a foreign market?
Establishing new operations in foreign countries to produce and sell their goods
Foreign acquisitions and creating new foreign operations require a?
Large investment 
A MNC’s cost of capital is influenced by?
The return required by its investors.
Direct foreign investment represents what?
The investment in fixed assets in foreign countries that could be used to conduct business operations.
Canada, China, Mexico, and Japan are main exporters of the United States. What percentage are they responsible for in US imports?
50%
What are the three barriers that have limited international trading of stocks?
Transaction costs, information costs, and exchange rate risk
The Equilibrium exchange rate will change over time with correlation to?
As supply and demand schedules changes
What is Globex?
A computerized platform that matches buy and sell offers for each standardized contract.
What type of relationship do future contracts and spot rates have?
If one moves the other will move in accordance to the other
What do currency options provide?
The right to purchase or sell currencies at a specified price.
A strong home currency makes consumers of that country?
Buy goods from other countries
In reference to forward premiums across maturity markets. What does the yield curve represent?
The relationship between the annualized yield of risk-free debt and the time to maturity at a given point in time.
What is a limitation of Purchasing Power Parity
The results will vary with the base period used
What does the potential forecast error for a particular currency depend on?
The forecast horizon 
What are the three forms of exchange rate exposure?
Transaction, economic, translation
An MNC can create what, when trying to determine the cash received from hedging?
Contingency Graph
How does translation exposure occur?
When an MNC translates each subsidiary’s financial data to its home currency for consolidated financial statements.
International projects and diversification benefits a firm by reducing what?
Overall risk
The ideal DFI solves what problems?
Unemployment and lack of technology
What three methods are used to adjust the evaluation of risk?
Risk-adjusted discount rate, sensitivity analysis, simulation
What are the two specific factors that an MNC uses to estimate future cash flows
Target-specific, Country-specific 
What are the techniques to assess country risk?
Checklist approach, Delphi technique, Quantitative analysis, Inspection visits, and a combination of techniques
What is the cost of debt to a firm determined by?
The prevailing risk-free interest rate in the currency borrowed and the risk premium required by creditors.
As risk-free interest rates vary among countries what happens to the cost of equity? 
The cost of equity also varies
What does a currency swap do?
It allows firms to exchange currency at periodic intervals.
What is a plain vanilla swap?
A standard contract without any unusual contract additions.
When are open account transactions used?
When the buyer and seller have a great deal of trust with one another and previous experience with each other.
What are the three agencies that motivate international trade?
Export-Import Bank of the United States, Private Export Funding Corporation, Overseas Private Investment Corporation
If an interest rate parity exists the currency will exhibit?
A forward premium that offsets the differential between its interest rate and its home interest rate. 
What techniques are used to optimize cash flows?
Accelerating cash inflows, Minimizing currency conversion costs, Managing blocked funds, Managing inter-subsidiary cash transfers. 
What are the three complications that are associated with optimizing cash flows?
Company-related characteristics, Government restrictions, Characteristics of banking systems. 
What is the difference between forecasted and realized exchange rate for a given point of time?
The forecast error.
What techniques does an MNC use to hedge its payables?
Futures hedge, Forwards hedge, Money market hedge, Currency option hedge
The euro enables residents to partake in?
Cross-border trading and capital flows
What is needed to construct a currency straddle?
Selling both a call option and a put option for a specific currency
What are ‘Red Tape’ barriers in relation to DFIs?
Procedural and documentation requirements 



